.TH DICE 1 2020-04-21 "dice 0.0.0" "General Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
dice \- generate diceware password
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdice\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIusername\fR \fIsitename\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBdice\fR is a command-line tool for generating a diceware password based on \
the user's full name and a website name.
.PP
If succeeded, the resulting generated password is then written to the standard \
output.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-c \fIvalue\fB, --counter=\fIvalue\fR
Set the counter value (0..255). The default is 0.
.TP
\fB-w \fIvalue\fB, --words=\fIvalue\fR
Set the number of words for the resulting generated password (5..10). The \
default is 6.
.TP
\fB--stdin\fR
Read password from the standard input instead.
.TP
\fB-v, --verbose\fR
Print extra information.
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
Show a quick summary of all options.
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Show this application's version number, copyright and license.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
.TP
\fB0\fR
The program exits successfully.
.TP
\fB1\fR
The program fails during retrieving environment variables.
.TP
\fB2\fR
The program fails during parsing arguments.
.TP
\fB3\fR
The program fails during retrieving terminal attributes.
.TP
\fB4\fR
The program fails during processing user's password.
.TP
\fB5\fR
The program fails during generating diceware password.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP
\fBDICE_COUNTER\fR
Overrides the default counter value.
.TP
\fBDICE_WORD_COUNT\fR
Overrides the default word count value.
.PP
These environment variables can in turn be overridden by the argument options.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.TP
$ \fBdice "John Doe" example.com\fR
.TP
$ \fBdice --counter 1 "John Doe" example.com\fR
Generate a second password for the same website.
.TP
$ \fBdice -w10 "John Doe" example.com\fR
Generate a ten words long diceware password.
.TP
$ \fBecho -n "mypassword" | dice --stdin Jane\\ Doe example.com | xclip \
-selection clipboard\fR
Read the password from standard input. The generated password is then written \
to standard output, which is piped to xclip to be copied to the clipboard.
